Now in those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus, that a census be
taken of all the inhabited earth. This was the first census taken while
Quirinius was governor of Syria. And everyone was on his way to register for
the census, each to his own city. Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the
city of Nazareth, to Judea, to the city of David which is called Bethlehem,
because he was of the house and family of David, in order to register along
with Mary, who was engaged to him, and was with child. While they were there,
the days were completed for her to give birth. And she gave birth to her
firstborn son; and she wrapped Him in cloths, and laid Him in a manger, because
there was no room for them in the inn. In the same region there were some
shepherds staying out in the fields and keeping watch over their flock by
night. And an angel of the Lord suddenly stood before them, and the glory of
the Lord shone around them; and they were terribly frightened. But the angel
said to them, "Do not be afraid; for behold, I bring you good news of great joy
which will be for all the people; for today in the city of David there has been
born for you a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. "This will be a sign for you:
you will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger." And suddenly
there appeared with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and
saying, "Glory to God in the highest, And on earth peace among men with whom He
is pleased." When the angels had gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds
began saying to one another, "Let us go straight to Bethlehem then, and see
this thing that has happened which the Lord has made known to us." So they came
in a hurry and found their way to Mary and Joseph, and the baby as He lay in
the manger. When they had seen this, they made known the statement which had
been told them about this Child. And all who heard it wondered at the things
which were told them by the shepherds. But Mary treasured all these things,
pondering them in her heart. The shepherds went back, glorifying and praising
God for all that they had heard and seen, just as had been told them. And when
eight days had passed, before His circumcision, His name was then called Jesus,
the name given by the angel before He was conceived in the womb.
